[audio playing...]
Of course, I was born an artist. This is
what was given to me and I cannot
refuse. But I live with just an ordinary
life trying to find the chance to earn
something, to spend some. I was the same
swine as everyone else. Well, in
Donetsk, I lived in that context. We
understood that we lived in Feudal,
corrupted sociology. And everyone looked
for the own comfort zone. There was no
feeling that anything needed to change.
But during the mind down in 2014, I was
amazed. Because finally, something real
was happening. People came out against
the state machine, and no one gave any
chance that it would not be a victory.
It inspired me a lot. And I realized, so
they wanted to be in the country, so
they leave them don't yet became
occupied by rush, and its proxies. There
was no centralized power in the city,
just scattered gangs, each of which
control the sorting district. At first,
I didn't fully believe that this was
permanent. But then, when I saw how
things were developing, I understood
that this was there. I had the self
realization that if I see it and do
nothing, it will torment me for the rest
of my life. I guess that my friends and
invited them to participate in creating
street art. They refused, because it was
too dangerous. But one person, a
professional photographer agreed to
help. There was neither opportunity not
time to paint on the street. So I worked
on plywood with the plan to place the
finish it works around the city. I
agreed to see goods that marked the self
proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic.
Some images contain is the literary
character sharekhan. Everyone from
Mikhail Bulgakov novel, he was dressed
in camouflage with a symbol of the so
called novel Ross, new rush. There was
the Russian military commander, he goes
through cold holding a gun to his head
with the Nike catchphrase, just do an
image of death with a grenade. There was
also a cloud. All the figures were of
human height, imitating aerial persons
size, they look like advertising boards.
It was not something metaphorical, but a
direct message. I walked around the city
and choose places where they could be
placed. Whether there were no
surveillance cameras, I planned here. I
will park the car here. I will go out
through the yard. Here. I will leave the
art when where my friend will take a
picture. There was a curfew at night. So
I decided that it should be in the
morning at around five o'clock. On the
first day, we drove around the city and
placed two artworks. As we drove to the
next location, two militants told us to
stop the car who was still in place.
They asked where we were going. And we
said two more. There were two more
artworks in the booth. If they had
looked inside, they would have killed
us. After that, I started putting one
artwork at a time with a break of
several days or even weeks. They would
stay up for a couple of hours and then
be gone. I went around and watching the
reaction. People laughed and took
selfies. They wrote on wine saying it
was a powerful signal that normal people
still live here.
In total, I was kidnapped by militants
for a month and how I was kept in
basements. From the first interrogation,
I already had broken ribs. And on day
one, I experienced the first mock
execution. On the second day, the
scenario was the same. I thought that
nothing could be worse. But then they
bought another prisoner to the military
headquarters. They stuffed us through
the hedge into a military car. But it
was impossible for two people to be. It
was summer. And it was very hot in this
iron box. They had such methods of
torture. Every day, there were two mock
executions. The most terrible one was
when we were picked up at night. They
were drinking because one of them had
the best day and he wanted to shoot a
Ukraine. This battalion made money by
getting prisoners to cut cars into
metal, so they weren't us as slaves. I
was handcuffed to another person. It was
very uncomfortable. My left hand was
injured and so was the other guys. We
were bound to each other as twin
brothers. We had to pick and eat
together. There was a car which they
wanted to paint in camouflage. Someone
mentioned the diamond artist. So they
said, paint and we will let you go. I
painted they gave me a few coins and
clean clothes. And I was but there was
one problem. The security service can my
passport without the passport. You can't
go anywhere. So I went with my
girlfriend and they said, we released
you take him into the basement. I stayed
there for a month. This time. There were
no interrogations, no bullying. Our job
was to dig trenches. But my injuries
made this impossible. They took me to a
place called hotel lever, which before
the occupation was a popular bar with
the statues of the Beatles. We were in a
hotel room, we have the shower, and we
work in the kitchen peeling potatoes for
the militants that leave. I was able to
ask for a phone and I contacted my
girlfriend who work in the security
forces. She was given the number of some
boss well, such telephone numbers are
not given out to strangers. There are no
cords. Someone simply asked to release
me. And finally they let me go.
I stayed in local Python yet for a while
until I realized that there was nothing
there. All I had was 500 printers. And I
went to key in key of the worst seemed
far away. But on February 24, I woke up
and went to the workshop. I looked at
all the art and sought none of this is
important. I just had such a breakdown
questioning what have I been doing? Oh
my wife. Only the art of killing
Moscowitz is needed. That's it.
Everything else is not art. I went to
the military headquarters. It's an
understandable reaction to this events.
I was sent to territorial defense, but
there was a long queue. And it was here
that I realized that what artists do is
also important. So I went back to work